pyfusion/documentation/tutorial/datamining.rst, before:

.. _tut-datamining:

**************************************
Example: MHD Data mining with pyfusion
**************************************

Here we show a method for finding classes of coherent fluctuations from many multi-channel timeseries signals (see Pretty and Blackwell paper). 

It is implement on LHD in the following example, using text files for
intermediate preprocessed data.  Currently this is faster than using a
database for this stage by about one order.

*******************************************************
using text files and a dictionary instead of a database
*******************************************************

In addition to the speedd advantage, the example below stores 
data in a form very convenient for improvising analysis.  The
file storage is in a dictionary of arrays, in precision chosen to
optimise accuracy and storage.  The dictionary is simply converted
into individual variables in total, or for a subset of the data
selected by an arbitrary where() statement.

The dictionary can remain resident so that the data can be easily
refreshed or re-selected whith different criteria.

# direct use of the dictionary
pl.plot(dd['t_mid'],dd['freq'])  # standard pylab function

sp(dd,t_mid,freq,amp,a12)   # scatter plot as above, but amplitude is
                            #color, and a12 is size

# selecting high power (>1MW) fast downchirps with N=2, and plotting
w = np.where( (N == 2) & (dw_pdt < -1000) & (Pfract>0.8) & (dfdt < -4) )[0]
sp(dd,t_mid,freq,amp,a12, ind=w)


*************************************
basic scripts to preprocess and merge
*************************************
# change to the directory containing the top pyfusion directory then

export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:`pwd`

# preprocess to get flucstructs into a text file
# note - this is run as a linux command - can also run under python
pyfusion/examples/prepfs_range.py --shot_range=[54185] 

#then merge the preprocessed data (set filename=<myfile> to get your data from above)
ipython --pylab
run pyfusion/examples/merge_text_pyfusion.py
run -i pyfusion/examples/merge_basic_diagnostics.py  # the -i keeps dd resident

# save the datafile here if you like
# savez.compressed('dd_file',dd=dd)  # savez('dd_file',dd=dd) # for old numpy - much larger
run -i pyfusion/examples/new_mode_identify_script.py
# once you have a reasonable mode identification (by adjusting threshold, and mode descriptions)
run -i pyfusion/examples/process_chirps

# example query

Commit message:

examples/prepfs_range.py: preprocessor to replace do_range scritp: much nicer argument handling, will allow upgrage to multiprocessor examples/gen_fs_local replace pf with pyfusion, output git version. examples/plot_text_pyfusion: most code extracted, rewritten into visual visual/sp.py nice scatterplot that understands data in dictionaty (dd) form __init__.py: if USER_ENV_CONFIG_FILE is set, and not found, raise error LHD/fetch.py make outdir if it doesn't exist LHD/get_basic_diagnostics.py: more careful, pass exception types, detect some data errors acquisition/read_text_pyfusion.py more checks, console feedback for long jobs, more specific with data types, including giving t_mid enough resolution tutorial/datamining.rst formatting, more info merge_basic_diagnostics: logging, more care with sign flips based on bsign, minshot merge_test_pyfusion: globbing, accept a signel filename, target for search utils: decimate included new_mode_identify_script - modes not yet updated to MP2010

pyfusion/documentation/tutorial/datamining.rst, after:

.. _tut-datamining:

**************************************
Example: MHD Data mining with pyfusion
**************************************

Here we show a method for finding classes of coherent fluctuations from many multi-channel timeseries signals (see Pretty and Blackwell paper). 

It is implement on LHD in the following example, using text files for
intermediate preprocessed data.  Currently this is faster than using a
database for this stage by about one order.

*******************************************************
using text files and a dictionary instead of a database
*******************************************************

In addition to the speed advantage, the example below stores 
data in a form very convenient for improvising analysis.  The
file storage is in a dictionary of arrays, in precision chosen to
optimise accuracy and storage.  The dictionary is simply converted
into individual variables in total, or for a subset of the data
selected by an arbitrary where() statement.

The dictionary can remain resident so that the data can be easily
refreshed or re-selected whith different criteria.::

  # direct use of the dictionary
  pl.plot(dd['t_mid'],dd['freq'])  # standard pylab function

  sp(dd,t_mid,freq,amp,a12)   # scatter plot as above, but amplitude is
                              #color, and a12 is size

  # selecting high power (>1MW) fast downchirps with N=2, and plotting
  w = np.where( (N == 2) & (dw_pdt < -1000) & (Pfract>0.8) & (dfdt < -4) )[0]
  sp(dd,t_mid,freq,amp,a12, ind=w)


*************************************
basic scripts to preprocess and merge
*************************************
Change to the directory containing the top pyfusion directory then::

      >>> export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:`pwd`

      >>> # preprocess to get flucstructs into a text file
      >>> # note - this is run as a linux command - can also run under python
      >>> pyfusion/examples/prepfs_range.py "." --shot_range=[54185] 

      >>> #then merge the preprocessed data (set filename=<myfile> to get your data from above)
      >>> ipython --pylab
      >>> run pyfusion/examples/merge_text_pyfusion.py
      >>> run -i pyfusion/examples/merge_basic_diagnostics.py  # the -i keeps dd resident

      >>> # save the datafile here if you like
      >>> # savez.compressed('dd_file',dd=dd)  # savez('dd_file',dd=dd) # for old numpy - much larger
      >>> run -i pyfusion/examples/new_mode_identify_script.py
      >>> # once you have a reasonable mode identification (by adjusting threshold, and mode descriptions)
      >>> run -i pyfusion/examples/process_chirps

      >>> # example query


More advanced script usage::
   # note the two sets of quotes, and the use of glob()
   run pyfusion/examples/merge_text_pyfusion.py file_list="glob('/home/bdb112/datamining/PF2_121208/PF2_121209_MP2010_667*_384_rms_1*')"
