pyfusion/documentation/development/tests/index.rst, before:

==============
Pyfusion tests
==============

e.g.
limited tests - naming a test in a file
nosetests pyfusion/acquisition/MDSPlus/tests.py:CheckH1ConfigSection

generated tests
nosetests pyfusion/test/generated_tests.py:TestSQLCheckMDSPlusH1Connection

don't suppress stdout on tests that pass
nosetests -s pyfusion

nosetests -s pyfusion/test/generated_tests.py:TestSQLCheckDataHistory

mdsplus tests:
nosetests -vs pyfusion/acquisition/MDSPlus/tests.py

avoid net access:
nosetests -a '!net' pyfusion

needs mdsip service to be running on 8000 with copy of test_tree
included here, and h1data shot 58123 in the path
Might be good to define a port separately for test_tree, so that the
unprivileged user can set it up (8000 is likely to be already used by
an MDSPlus server owned by the system)

test method:  (to ensure a clean environment)
# clone a repository if required, and cd to the pyfusion directory
if [ -f ../pyfusion/test/tests.py ]; then echo OK ; else echo not a pyfusion directory; fi
export PYTHONPATH=`pwd`/..
export PYFUSION_CONFIG_FILE=`pwd`/`/bin/ls pyfusion.cfg`
nosetests -a '!net'

The Mar 4 version executes with 8/9 errors out of 256 (on Boyds Ubuntu)
nosetests -v 2>&1|egrep 'ERROR:|FAIL|Ran'
ERROR: test_thick_client_access (pyfusion.acquisition.MDSPlus.tests.TestRefactoredMDSThick)
TreeException: %TREE-E-TreeFAILURE, Operation NOT successful
ERROR: test_thin_client_access (pyfusion.acquisition.MDSPlus.tests.TestRefactoredMDSThin)
MdsException: %TREE-E-TreeFAILURE, Operation NOT successful
ERROR: test_device (pyfusion.devices.LHD.tests.CheckLHDDevice)
ERROR: pyfusion.devices.tests.TestDeviceGetdata.test_device_getdata_single_shot
ERROR: pyfusion.devices.tests.TestDeviceGetdata.test_device_getdatat_multishot
ERROR: test_orm_manager (pyfusion.test.generated_tests.TestNoSQLCheckORMManager)
ERROR: test_device_getdatat_multishot (pyfusion.test.generated_tests.TestNoSQLTestDeviceGetdata)
ERROR: test_manager_reg (pyfusion.test.generated_tests.TestSQLCheckORMManager)
ERROR: test_orm_manager (pyfusion.test.generated_tests.TestSQLCheckORMManager)
Ran 265 tests in 13.117s
FAILED (errors=8 or 9: test_device_getdatat_multishot sometimes passes)

3 of these would pass in the right environment
TestRefactoredMDSThick, TestRefactoredMDSThin, CheckLHDDevice





.. module:: pyfusion.test.tests

.. module:: pyfusion.devices.tests

Commit message:

make sure pyfusion.DEBUG is an int acquisition/MDSPlus/fetch.py - extra debug/error info rename path to local_path_mode acquisition/MDSPlus/tests.py extra debug info conf/utils.py - improve dump, diff - add comments data/tests.py - debugging debug_.py - improved comments - clear up key and msg /development/tests/index.rst  expand, correct

pyfusion/documentation/development/tests/index.rst, after:

==============
Pyfusion tests
==============

e.g.
limited tests - naming a test in a file
nosetests pyfusion/acquisition/MDSPlus/tests.py:CheckH1ConfigSection

generated tests
nosetests pyfusion/test/generated_tests.py:TestSQLCheckMDSPlusH1Connection

don't suppress stdout on tests that pass
This is supposed to find all test in the path, but some are
deliberately hidden as they are meant to be executed under program
control for both SQL and no SQL
nosetests -s pyfusion

Note that some tests may fail or not be possible to execute in 
the "-s" mode  - the ones below do work.
nosetests -s pyfusion/test/generated_tests.py:TestSQLCheckDataHistory

mdsplus tests:
nosetests -vs pyfusion/acquisition/MDSPlus/tests.py
nosetests -vs acquisition/MDSPlus/tests.py:TestRefactoredMDSLocal

avoid net access:
nosetests -a '!net' pyfusion


needs mdsip service to be running on 8000 with copy of test_tree
included here, and h1data shot 58123 in the path
Might be good to define a port separately for test_tree, so that the
unprivileged user can set it up (8000 is likely to be already used by
an MDSPlus server owned by the system)

test method:  (to ensure a clean environment)
# clone a repository if required, and cd to the pyfusion directory
if [ -f ../pyfusion/test/tests.py ]; then echo OK ; else echo not a pyfusion directory; fi
export PYTHONPATH=`pwd`/..
export PYFUSION_CONFIG_FILE=`pwd`/`/bin/ls pyfusion.cfg`
nosetests -a '!net'
# use comma separated list for multiple attributes
nosetests -v -a'!net,!mds,!slow' pyfusion 2>&1|egrep 'ERROR:|FAIL|Ran'

The Mar 4 version executes with 8/9 errors out of 256 (on Boyds Ubuntu)
nosetests -v 2>&1|egrep 'ERROR:|FAIL|Ran'
ERROR: test_thick_client_access (pyfusion.acquisition.MDSPlus.tests.TestRefactoredMDSThick)
TreeException: %TREE-E-TreeFAILURE, Operation NOT successful
ERROR: test_thin_client_access (pyfusion.acquisition.MDSPlus.tests.TestRefactoredMDSThin)
MdsException: %TREE-E-TreeFAILURE, Operation NOT successful
ERROR: test_device (pyfusion.devices.LHD.tests.CheckLHDDevice)
ERROR: pyfusion.devices.tests.TestDeviceGetdata.test_device_getdata_single_shot
ERROR: pyfusion.devices.tests.TestDeviceGetdata.test_device_getdatat_multishot
ERROR: test_orm_manager (pyfusion.test.generated_tests.TestNoSQLCheckORMManager)
ERROR: test_device_getdatat_multishot (pyfusion.test.generated_tests.TestNoSQLTestDeviceGetdata)
ERROR: test_manager_reg (pyfusion.test.generated_tests.TestSQLCheckORMManager)
ERROR: test_orm_manager (pyfusion.test.generated_tests.TestSQLCheckORMManager)
Ran 265 tests in 13.117s
FAILED (errors=8 or 9: test_device_getdatat_multishot sometimes passes)

3 of these would pass in the right environment
TestRefactoredMDSThick, TestRefactoredMDSThin, CheckLHDDevice





.. module:: pyfusion.test.tests

.. module:: pyfusion.devices.tests
